Français
Traditional Chinese Medicine Act, 2006
ONTARIO REGULATION 27/13
REGISTRATION
Consolidation Period: From August 31, 2023 to the e-Laws currency date.
Last Amendment: 300/23.
Legislative History: 27/13, 184/19, 300/23.
This is the English version of a bilingual regulation.
CONTENTS
1. Definition
2. Classes of certificates
3. Application for certificate of registration
4. Requirements for issuance of certificate of registration, any class
5. Terms, conditions and limitations of every certificate
9. Registration requirements, General class
10. Terms, etc., General certificate
11. Labour mobility, General class
12. Registration requirements, Student class
13. Terms, etc., Student class
14. Labour mobility, Student class
15. Registration requirements, Inactive class
16. Additional terms, etc., Inactive class
17. Issuing other certificate to Inactive holder
18. Registration requirements, Temporary class
19. Additional terms, etc., Temporary class
20. Labour mobility, Temporary class
20.1 Registration Requirements, Emergency class
20.2 Additional terms, etc., Emergency Class
20.3 Issuing General certificate to Emergency holder
21. Suspensions, revocations and reinstatements
22. Registrar to give notice
Definition
1. In this Regulation,
“full-time education” means a program of study that annually consists of at least 480 hours of classroom theoretical
instruction or at least 620 hours of practical instruction or some combination of the two where, for every hour of classroom
theoretical instruction that is less than 480 hours there must be a corresponding increase of 1.3 hours in the number of
hours of practical instruction. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 1.
Classes of certificates
2. The following are prescribed as classes of certificates of registration:
1. General.
2. REVOKED: O. Reg. 27/13, s. 24 (1).
3. Student.
4. Temporary.
5. Inactive.
6. Emergency. O. Reg. 27/13, ss. 2, 24 (1); O. Reg. 300/23, s. 1.
7. Doctor
1
Application for certificate of registration
3. (1) A person may apply for a certificate of registration by submitting a completed application in the form provided by
the Registrar, together with any applicable fees required under the by-laws and any supporting documentation requested by
the Registrar. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 3 (1).
(2) An applicant shall be deemed not to have satisfied the registration requirements for a certificate of registration if the
applicant makes a false or misleading statement or representation on or in connection with his or her
application, and any certificate of registration issued to such an applicant may be revoked by the Registrar. O. Reg. 27/13,
s. 3 (2).
Requirements for issuance of certificate of registration, any class
4. (1) An applicant must satisfy the following requirements for the issuance of a certificate of registration of any class:
1. The applicant must, at the time of application, provide written details about any of the following that relate to the
applicant, and where any of the following change with respect to the applicant after submitting the application but
before the issuance of a certificate, the applicant must immediately provide written details with respect to the change:
i. A finding of guilt for any of the following:
A. A criminal offence.
B. An offence resulting in either a fine greater than $1,000.00 or any form of custody or detention.
ii. A finding of professional misconduct, incompetence or incapacity, or any similar finding, in relation to another
regulated profession in Ontario or to any regulated profession in another jurisdiction.
iii. A current proceeding for professional misconduct, incompetence or incapacity, or any similar proceeding, in
relation to another regulated profession in Ontario or to any regulated profession in another jurisdiction.
iv. A finding of professional negligence or malpractice in any jurisdiction.
v. A refusal by any body responsible for the regulation of a profession in any jurisdiction to register or license the
applicant.
vi. An attempt to pass a registration examination required for the purposes of being licensed or certified to practise
any regulated health profession, whether in Ontario or another jurisdiction, that has not resulted in a passing
grade.
vii. Whether the applicant was in good standing at the time he or she ceased being registered, whether in Ontario or
another jurisdiction, with a body responsible for the regulation of a profession.
viii. Where the applicant is a member of another regulated profession in Ontario or any regulated profession in
another jurisdiction, any failure by the applicant to comply with any obligation to pay fees or provide information
to the body responsible for the regulation of such professions, the initiation of a
ny investigations by such bodies in respect of the applicant or the imposition of sanctions on the applicant by such bodies.
ix. Any other event that would provide reasonable grounds for the belief that the applicant will not practise
traditional Chinese medicine in a safe and professional manner.
2. The applicant must, at the time of application, provide the Registrar with the results of a criminal background check.
3. The applicant’s previous conduct must afford reasonable grounds for the belief that he or she will practise the
profession in a safe and professional manner.
4. The applicant must be able to speak, read and write either English or French with reasonable fluency.
5. The applicant must not have a physical or mental condition or disorder that would make it desirable in the interest of
the public that he or she not be issued a certificate of registration unless, should the applicant be given a certificate of
registration, the imposition of a term, limit or condition on that certificate is sufficient to address such concerns.
6. If the applicant is registered by any body responsible for the regulation of any other profession in Ontario or of any
profession in any oth
er jurisdiction, the applicant’s registration must be in good standing and must continue to be in good standing until such time
as the applicant is issued a certificate of registration.
7. If the applicant ceased being registered with any body responsible for the regulation of a profession in Ontario or in
any other jurisdiction, the applicant must have been in good standing at the time he or she ceased being registered.
8. The applicant must provide evidence satisfactory to the Registrar that the applicant will have professional liability
insurance in the amount and in the form required under the by-laws as of the anticipated date for the issuance of his or
her certificate of registrat
2
ion. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 4 (1).
(2) REVOKED: O. Reg. 27/13, s. 24 (1).
Terms, conditions and limitations of every certificate
5. (1) Every certificate of registration is subject to the following terms, conditions and limitations:
1. The member shall provide the College with written details about any of the following that relate to the member no later
than 30 days after the event occurs:
i. A finding of professional misconduct, incompetence or incapacity, or any similar finding, in relation to another
regulated profession in Ontario or to any regulated profession in another jurisdiction.
ii. A current proceeding for professional misconduct, incompetence or incapacity, or any similar proceeding, in
relation to another regulated profession in Ontario or to any regulated profession in another jurisdiction.
iii. A finding of professional negligence or malpractice in any jurisdiction.
iv. A refusal by any body responsible for the regulation of a profession in any jurisdiction to register or license the
member.
v. An attempt to pass a registration examination required for the purposes of being licensed or certified to practise
any regulated health profession, whether in Ontario or another jurisdiction, that has not resulted in a passing
grade.
vi. Whether the member was in good standing at the time he or she ceased being registered with a body responsible
for the regulation of a profession in Ontario or any other jurisdiction.
vii. Where the member is a member of another regulated profession in Ontario or any regulated profession in another
jurisdiction, any failure by the member to comply with any obligation to pay fees or provide information to the
body responsible for the regulation of such professions, the initiation of any investigations b
y such bodies in respect of the member or the imposition of sanctions on the member by such bodies.
viii. Any other event that would provide reasonable grounds for the belief that the member will not practise traditional
Chinese medicine in a safe and professional manner.
2. The member shall provide the College with written details about any finding of guilt relating to any offence as soon as
possible after receiving notice of the finding, but not later than 30 days after receiving the notice.
3. The member shall maintain professional liability insurance in the amount and in the form required under the by-laws,
and the member shall provide the College, within two days, with written notice if the member no longer maintains
such insurance.
4. The member shall not practise the profession if the member does not have professional liability insurance in the
amount and in the form required under the by-laws.
5. The member shall,
i. where the member is issued a certificate of registration by the College, prominently display his or her certificate
of registration at any location at which he or she practises the profession, and
ii. where the member is issued a badge by the College, at all times while practising the profession, prominently
display the badge on the outside of his or her clothing.
6. Immediately prior to the member’s resignation, or to the suspension, revocation or expiry of the member’s certificate
of registration, the member shall return his or her certificate of registration and, if he or she has one, his or her related
badge, to the Registrar.
7. Subject to subsection (2), a member who holds a certificate of registration listed in Column 1 of the Table to this
subsection,
i. shall only use the titles listed in Column 2 opposite the certificate of registration, and
ii. shall only use the designations listed in Column 3 opposite the certificate of registration, if applicable.
8. The member shall only practise in the areas of traditional Chinese medicine in which the member is educated and
experienced.
TABLE
Item Column 1 Column 2 Column 3
Certificate of Registration Title Designation
1. General Traditional Chinese Medicine R. TCMP
3
Practitioner
2. General Acupuncturist R. Ac
3. Student Student Doctor of Traditional Chinese none
Medicine
43. Student Student Traditional Chinese Medicine none
Practitioner
54. Student Student Acupuncturist none
6. Inactive Doctor of Traditional Chinese DTCM (Inactive)
Medicine (Inactive)
75. Inactive Traditional Chinese Medicine R. TCMP (Inactive)
Practitioner (Inactive)
68. Inactive Acupuncturist (Inactive) R. Ac (Inactive)
9. Temporary Doctor of Traditional Chinese DTCM (Temp)
Medicine (Temp.)
10.7. Temporary Traditional Chinese Medicine R. TCMP (Temp.)
Practitioner (Temp.)
118. Temporary Acupuncturist (Temp.) R. Ac (Temp.)
912. Emergency Traditional Chinese Medicine R. TCMP (Emerg.)
Practitioner (Emergency)
103. Emergency Acupuncturist (Emergency) R. Ac (Emerg.)
141. Doctor Doctor of Traditional Chinese DTCM
Medicine
O. Reg. 27/13, ss. 5 (1), 23 (1), 24 (1); O. Reg.184/19, s. 1; O. Reg. 300/23, s. 2.
(2) A member who is subject to the term, condition and limitation specified in paragraph 2 of subsection 10 (1) and who
has not successfully completed the registration examinations shall only use the titles “Provisional Traditional Chinese
Medicine Practitioner” or “Provisional Acupuncturist” and the designations “R. TCMP (Provisional)” and “R. Ac
(Provisional)”. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 23 (2).
6.-8. REVOKED: O. Reg. 27/13, s. 24 (1).
Registration requirements, General class
9. (1) Subject to subsection (3), the following are non-exemptible registration requirements for a General certificate of
registration:
1. The applicant must have successfully completed a post-secondary program in traditional Chinese medicine that,
i. in the case of a full traditional Chinese medicine program, consists of at least four years of full-time education, or
education that is of equivalent duration, and
ii. in the case of a traditional Chinese medicine acupuncture program, consists of at least three years of full-time
education, or education that is of equivalent duration.
2. The applicant must have successfully completed a program of clinical experience in the profession that is structured,
comprehensive, supervised and evaluated and which consists of at least 45 weeks of clinical experience involving at
least 500 hours of direct patient contact.
3. The applicant must have successfully completed the Safety Program that was set or approved by the Council or by a
body that is approved by the Council for that purpose.
4. The applicant must have successfully completed the jurisprudence course set or approved by the Registration
Committee.
5. The applicant must have successfully passed an assessment conducted by a panel of the Registration Committee, or by
another body that is approved by the Council for that purpose, that demonstrates that the applicant has the necessary
competency to safely practise the profession as the holder of a General certificate of registration.
6. The applicant must have successfully completed the registration examinations that are set or approved by the Council.
O. Reg. 27/13, ss. 9 (1), 23 (3).
(2) If the applicant has not satisfied the requirements set out in paragraph 1 of subsection (1) either within one year
immediately before the date that the applicant submitted his or her application or at some point following the submission of
his or her application, the applicant must,
(a) have practised the profession during the three-year period of time that immediately preceded the date that the applicant
submitted his or her application, which practice included conducting a minimum of 500 traditional Chinese medicine
patient visits, which may include traditional Chinese acupuncture patient visits; or
4
(b) have, within the 12-month period that immediately preceded the date that the applicant submitted his or her
application, successfully completed a refresher program approved by the Registration Committee. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 9
(2).
(3), (4) REVOKED: O. Reg. 27/13, s. 24 (1).
(5) The requirement in paragraph 2 of subsection (1) is not considered to have been met if the program referred to in that
paragraph commenced prior to the commencement of the program in traditional Chinese medicine referred to in paragraph 1
of subsection (1). O. Reg. 27/13, s. 9 (5).
(6) The requirements in paragraphs 3 and 4 of subsection (1) are not considered to have been met unless the applicant
satisfies those requirements either within the three-year period immediately before the date of that applicant’s application or
at some point following the submission of his or her application. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 9 (6).
(7) Subject to subsections (8) and (9), the requirements in paragraph 6 of subsection (1) are not considered to have been
met unless the applicant successfully completed the examinations,
(a) after the date on which he or she met the requirements in paragraph 5 of subsection (1); or
(b) within three attempts. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 23 (4).
(8) In the case of an applicant who does not successfully complete the examinations within three attempts, the
requirements in paragraph 6 of subsection (1) will be considered to have been met if the applicant successfully completed the
examinations on the applicant’s fourth attempt after having first successfully completed the further education or training or
combination of education and training, if any, required by a panel of the Registration Committee. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 23 (4).
(9) Where, by virtue of clause (b) of subsection (7) and subsection (8), an applicant is not considered to have met the
requirements in paragraph 6 of subsection (1), the successful completion of the examinations on any further attempt will not
be considered as satisfying the requirements in paragraph 6 of subsection (1) unless, prior to sitting the examinations, the
applicant completes another program mentioned in paragraph 1 of subsection (1). O. Reg. 27/13, s. 23 (4).
(10) Where, by virtue of clause (a) of subsection (7), an applicant is not considered to have met the requirements in
paragraph 6 of subsection (1), the attempt or attempts to sit the examinations that led to the meeting of those requirements
will not be considered for the purposes of clause (7) (b) and subsection (8). O. Reg. 27/13, s. 23 (4).
Terms, etc., General certificate
10. (1) The following are terms, conditions and limitations on every General certificate of registration:
1. The member must either,
i. conduct a minimum of 500 traditional Chinese medicine patient visits, which may include traditional Chinese
acupuncture patient visits, during every three-year period where the first three-year period begins on the day that
the member is issued a General certificate of registration and each subsequent three-year period begins on the
first anniversary of the commencement of the previous period, or
ii. within the 12 months prior to the expiry of each period referred to in subparagraph i in which the member does
not meet the requirements of that subparagraph, successfully complete a refresher program approved by the
Registration Committee.
2. Subject to subsection (4), a member who was issued a General certificate of registration before the coming into force
of this paragraph must successfully complete the registration examinations referred to in paragraph 6 of subsection 9
(1). O. Reg. 27/13, ss. 10 (1), 23 (5).
(2) If a member fails to meet the term, condition and limitation described in paragraph 1 of subsection (1), the Registrar
shall refer the member to the Quality Assurance Committee for a peer and practice review. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 10 (2).
(3) A member referred to in paragraph 2 of subsection (1) must successfully complete the examinations referred to in that
paragraph within two attempts and must attempt every set of those examinations that is offered until such time as the
examinations are successfully completed or he or she fails the examinations for a second time, whichever comes first.
O. Reg. 27/13, s. 23 (6).
(4) A member who is issued a General certificate of registration pursuant to subsection 9 (3) or section 11 is not required
to meet the term, condition and limitation described in paragraph 2 of subsection (1). O. Reg. 27/13, s. 23 (6).
Labour mobility, General class
11. (1) Where section 22.18 of the Health Professions Procedural Code applies to an applicant for a General certificate of
registration, the applicant is deemed to have met the requirements set out in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 of subsection 9 (1)
and in subsection 9 (2) of this Regulation. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 23 (7).
(2) It is a non-exemptible registration requirement that an applicant referred to in subsection (1) provide one or more
certificates or letters or other evidence satisfactory to the Registrar or a panel of the Registration Committee confirming that
5
the applicant is in good standing as a practitioner of traditional Chinese medicine in every jurisdiction where the applicant
holds an out-of-province certificate. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 11 (2).
(3) If an applicant to whom subsection (1) applies is unable to satisfy the Registrar or a panel of the Registration
Committee that the applicant practised the profession of traditional Chinese medicine to the extent that would be permitted by
a General certificate of registration at any time in the three years immediately before the date of that applicant’s application,
it is a non-exemptible requirement that the applicant must meet any further requirement to undertake, obtain or undergo
material additional training, experience, examinations or assessments that may be specified by a panel of the Registration
Committee. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 11 (3).
(4) An applicant referred to in subsection (1) is deemed to have met the requirement of paragraph 4 of subsection 4 (1) if
the requirements for the issuance of the out-of-province certificate included language proficiency requirements equivalent to
those required by that paragraph. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 11 (4).
(5) Despite subsection (1), an applicant is not deemed to have met a requirement if that requirement is described in
subsection 22.18 (3) of the Health Professions Procedural Code. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 11 (5).
Registration requirements, Student class
12. (1) The following are registration requirements for a Student certificate of registration:
1. The applicant must,
i. be enrolled in a post-secondary program in traditional Chinese medicine referred to in paragraph 1 of subsection
9 (1) or paragraph b of subsection 20.4.(1)2.,
ii. be enrolled in a program referred to in paragraph 2 of subsection 9 (1) or paragraph c of subsection 20.4.(1)2., or
iii. have applied to take the registration examinations referred to in paragraph 6 of subsection 9 (1),or paragraph f of
subsection 20.4.(1)2 but have not yet taken the examinations.
2. The applicant must not have previously held a Student certificate of registration and been unsuccessful in an attempt to
meet the requirements of paragraph 1, 2 or 6 of subsection 9 (1) unless the Registrar is of the opinion that there are
exceptional circumstances that likely contributed to the applicant’s failure to meet those requirements. O. Reg. 27/13,
ss. 12 (1), 23 (8, 9).
(2) The requirements of paragraph 1 of subsection (1) are non-exemptible. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 12 (2).
Terms, etc., Student class
13. The following are terms, conditions and limitations on every Student certificate of registration:
1. The member shall only practise the profession while under the supervision of a member who holds a General
certificate of registration or Doctor of Traditional Chinese Medicine certification of registration who can communicate
with the member in the member’s language and who has been approved by the Registrar.
2. The member’s certificate of registration expires on the earliest of,
i. the date the holder is no longer actively engaged in pursuing the educational program, examinations or program
of clinical experience referred to in paragraph 1 of subsection 12 (1) unless the Registrar permits the holder, in
writing, to interrupt the pursuit of those requirements,
ii. the date that is seven years following the date on which the Student certificate of registration was issued unless a
panel of the Registration Committee determines that exceptional circumstances exist which warrant an extension
of the holder’s certificate of registration, and
iii. the date the holder is issued a certificate of registration of another class.
3. Where a certificate of registration is extended by a panel of the Registration Committee under subparagraph 2 ii, the
extension is subject to any terms, conditions and limitations as determined by that panel of the Registration
Committee. O. Reg. 27/13, ss. 13, 23 (10), 24 (2).
Labour mobility, Student class
14. (1) Where section 22.18 of the Health Professions Procedural Code applies to an applicant for a Student certificate of
registration, the applicant is deemed to have met the requirements set out in paragraph 1 of subsection 12 (1). O. Reg. 27/13,
s. 14 (1).
(2) It is a non-exemptible registration requirement that an applicant referred to in subsection (1) provide one or more
certificates or letters or other evidence satisfactory to the Registrar or a panel of the Registration Committee confirming that
the applicant is in good standing as a practitioner of traditional Chinese medicine in every jurisdiction where the applicant
holds an out-of-province certificate. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 14 (2).
(3) If an applicant to whom subsection (1) applies is unable to satisfy the Registrar or a panel of the Registration
Committee that the applicant practised the profession of traditional Chinese medicine to the extent that would be permitted by
6
a Student certificate of registration at any time in the three years immediately before the date of that applicant’s application, it
is a non-exemptible requirement that the applicant must meet any further requirement to undertake, obtain or undergo
material additional training, experience, examinations or assessments that may be specified by a panel of the Registration
Committee. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 14 (3).
(4) An applicant referred to in subsection (1) is deemed to have met the requirement of paragraph 4 of subsection 4 (1) if
the requirements for the issuance of the out-of-province certificate included language proficiency requirements equivalent to
those required by that paragraph. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 14 (4).
(5) Despite subsection (1), an applicant is not deemed to have met a requirement if that requirement is described in
subsection 22.18 (3) of the Health Professions Procedural Code. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 14 (5).
Registration requirements, Inactive class
15. (1) The following are registration requirements for an Inactive certificate of registration:
1. The applicant must be a member holding a General certificate of registration or Doctor of Traditional Chinese
Medicine certificate of registration.
2. The applicant must not be in default of any fee, penalty or other amount owing to the College.
3. The applicant must have provided the College with any information that it has required of the applicant.
4. The applicant must have provided the College with an undertaking, in a form acceptable to the Registrar, that he or she
will not practise the profession while holding an Inactive certificate of registration.
5. The applicant must not have held an Inactive certificate of registration within the five-year period immediately before
the date on which he or she submitted the application unless the Registrar is of the opinion that exceptional
circumstances justify exempting the applicant from this requirement. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 15 (1), 24 (2).
(2) The requirements of paragraphs 1 to 4 of subsection (1) are non-exemptible. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 15 (2).
Additional terms, etc., Inactive class
16. The following are additional terms, conditions and limitations on every Inactive certificate of registration:
1. The member shall not engage in the practice of traditional Chinese medicine.
2. The member shall not supervise the practice of the profession.
3. The member shall not make any claim to or representation of having any competence in the profession. O. Reg. 27/13,
s. 16.
Issuing other certificate to Inactive holder
17. (1) The Registrar may issue to the holder of an Inactive certificate of registration the General certificate of registration
that he or she previously held if the member,
(a) makes an application to the Registrar;
(b) pays any penalty or other amount owed to the College;
(c) pays any fees required under the College’s by-laws;
(d) provides the College with any information that it has required of the member;
(e) satisfies the Registrar that he or she will be in compliance with all of the terms, conditions and limitations of the
certificate that is being applied for as of the anticipated date on which the certificate will be issued; and
(f) satisfies a panel of the Registration Committee that he or she possesses the current knowledge, skill and judgment
relating to the practice of the profession that would be expected of a member holding the type of certificate which is
being applied for. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 17 (1), 24 (2).
(2) Despite subsection (1), the Registrar shall not reissue a Grandparented certificate of registration after the fifth
anniversary of the day this section came into force. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 17 (2).
Registration requirements, Temporary class
18. (1) The following are registration requirements for a Temporary certificate of registration:
1. The applicant must be registered or licensed to practise traditional Chinese medicine in another jurisdiction in which
the requirements for registration or licensure are similar to those in paragraphs 1 and 2 of subsection 9 (1) or paragraph
b and c of subsection 20.4.(1)2..
2. The applicant must have an offer of employment or appointment that relates to the practice or teaching of the
profession and which does not exceed six months.
7
3. A holder of a General certificate of registration or Doctor of Traditional Chinese Medicine certificate of registration
who is approved by the Registrar must have agreed to supervise the applicant and to be responsible for ensuring that
the applicant provides appropriate and continuing care to patients.
4. The applicant must not have held a Temporary certificate of registration in the 12-month period immediately before
the date on which he or she made the application unless the Registrar is of the opinion, based on exceptional
circumstances, that this requirement should not apply.
5. The applicant must have successfully completed the jurisprudence course set or approved by the Registration
Committee. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 18 (1), 24 (2).
(2) The requirements of paragraphs 1 to 4 of subsection (1) are non-exemptible. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 18 (2).
(3) The requirement in paragraph 5 of subsection (1) is not considered to have been met unless the applicant satisfies the
requirement within the three-year period immediately before the date of the applicant’s application. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 18 (3).
(4) If the applicant completed the education that was part of the requirements for the registration or licensure referred to in
paragraph 1 of subsection (1) more than one year immediately before the date that the applicant submitted his or her
application for a Temporary certificate of registration, the applicant must,
(a) have practised the profession during the three-year period of time that immediately preceded the date that the applicant
submitted his or her application, which practice included conducting a minimum of 500 traditional Chinese medicine
patient visits, which may include traditional Chinese acupuncture patient visits; or
(b) have, within the 12-month period that immediately preceded the date that the applicant submitted his or her
application, successfully completed a refresher program approved by the Registration Committee. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 18
(4).
Additional terms, etc., Temporary class
19. The following are additional terms, conditions and limitations on every Temporary certificate of registration:
1. The member may only practise traditional Chinese medicine under the supervision of the General member referred to
in paragraph 3 of subsection 18 (1).
2. Upon the request of the Registrar, the member shall provide evidence satisfactory to the Registrar of the member’s
compliance with the terms, conditions and limitations set out in paragraph 1 and shall provide such evidence within the
time period set by the Registrar.
3. The member’s certificate of registration expires on the earlier of the expiry date noted on his or her certificate of
registration and the day that is six months after the date on which the certificate was issued. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 19, 24
(2).
Labour mobility, Temporary class
20. (1) Where section 22.18 of the Health Professions Procedural Code applies to an applicant for a Temporary certificate
of registration, the applicant is deemed to have met the requirements set out in paragraph 1 of subsection 18 (1). O. Reg.
27/13, s. 20 (1).
(2) It is a non-exemptible registration requirement that an applicant referred to in subsection (1) provide one or more
certificates or letters or other evidence satisfactory to the Registrar or a panel of the Registration Committee confirming that
the applicant is in good standing as a practitioner of traditional Chinese medicine in every jurisdiction where the applicant
holds an out-of-province certificate. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 20 (2).
(3) If an applicant to whom subsection (1) applies is unable to satisfy the Registrar or a panel of the Registration
Committee that the applicant practised the profession of traditional Chinese medicine to the extent that would be permitted by
a Temporary certificate of registration at any time in the three years immediately before the date of that applicant’s
application, it is a non-exemptible requirement that the applicant must meet any further requirement to undertake, obtain or
undergo material additional training, experience, examinations or assessments that may be specified by a panel of the
Registration Committee. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 20 (3).
(4) An applicant referred to in subsection (1) is deemed to have met the requirement of paragraph 4 of subsection 4 (1) if
the requirements for the issuance of the out-of-province certificate included language proficiency requirements equivalent to
those required by that paragraph. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 20 (4).
(5) Despite subsection (1), an applicant is not deemed to have met a requirement if that requirement is described in
subsection 22.18 (3) of the Health Professions Procedural Code. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 20 (5).
Registration Requirements, Emergency class
20.1 The following are registration requirements for an Emergency certificate of registration:
1. The Minister must have requested that the College initiate registrations under this class based on the Minister’s
opinion that emergency circumstances call for it or the Council must have determined, after taking into account all of
8
the relevant circumstances that impact the ability of applicants to meet the ordinary registration requirements, that
there are emergency circumstances, and that it is in the public interest that the College issue emergency certificates.
2. The applicant must have successfully completed a post-secondary program in traditional Chinese medicine that is
approved by the Registration Committee and that,
i. in the case of a full traditional Chinese medicine program, consists of at least four years of full-time education, or
education that is of equivalent duration, and
ii. in the case of a traditional Chinese medicine acupuncture program, consists of at least three years of full-time
education, or education that is of equivalent duration.
3. The applicant must have successfully completed a program of clinical experience in the profession that is structured,
comprehensive, supervised and evaluated and which consists of at least 45 weeks of clinical experience involving at
least 500 hours of direct patient contact.
4. The applicant must have successfully completed the Safety Program that was set or approved by the Council or by a
body that is approved by the Council for that purpose within the two years preceding the submitting of the application.
5. The applicant must have successfully completed the jurisprudence course set or approved by the Registration
Committee within the two years preceding the submitting of the application. O. Reg. 300/23, s. 3.
Additional terms, etc., Emergency Class
20.2 The following are additional terms, conditions and limitations on every Emergency certificate of registration:
1. The member may only practise the profession under the supervision of a holder of a General certificate of registration
or Doctor of Traditional Chinese Medicine certificate of registration who has been approved by the Registrar.
2. Upon the request of the Registrar, the member shall provide evidence satisfactory to the Registrar of the member’s
compliance with the term, condition and limitation set out in paragraph 1 and shall provide such evidence within the
time period set by the Registrar.
3. The member shall practise the profession a minimum of 170 patient visits during each 12-month period that they hold
registration in the Emergency class.
4. If a member fails to meet the condition described in paragraph 3, the Registrar shall refer the member to the Quality
Assurance Committee for a peer and practice assessment unless the member,
i. has successfully completed a refresher program approved by the Registration Committee, or
ii. has resigned their Emergency certificate of registration.
5. The member may not supervise another person in the practice of the profession.
6. Unless stated otherwise on the certificate, an Emergency certificate of registration expires one year after it is issued
unless it is renewed.
7. Unless stated otherwise on the certificate, a renewed Emergency certificate of registration expires one year after it is
issued unless it is renewed again.
8. Despite paragraphs 6 and 7, an Emergency certificate of registration expires six months after the Council determines
that the emergency circumstances referred to in paragraph 1 of section 20.1 no longer exist. O. Reg. 300/23, s. 3.
Issuing General certificate to Emergency holder
20.3 (1) A member who holds an Emergency certificate of registration may be issued a General certificate of registration
if the member,
(a) applies for the General certificate of registration;
(b) pays all fees as set out in the by-laws and any penalty or other amount owed to the College; and
(c) provides the College with any information that it has required of the member. O. Reg. 300/23, s. 3.
(2) If the member has held an Emergency certificate of registration for less than three years, the member must successfully
complete the registration examinations, as identified in paragraph 6 of subsection 9 (1), within two attempts, and must
attempt every set of those examinations that is offered until such time as the examinations are successfully completed or the
member fails the examinations for a second time, whichever comes first. O. Reg. 300/23, s. 3.
(3) If the member has held an Emergency certificate of registration for three years or more, the member must,
9
(a) satisfy a panel of the Registration Committee that the member possesses the current knowledge, skill and judgment
relating to the practice of the profession that would be expected of a member holding a General certificate of
registration; or
(b) have successfully completed such additional education, training or examination requirements that are determined to be
necessary by a panel of the Registration Committee. O. Reg. 300/23, s. 3.
(4) Every member described in this section is exempt from the requirement to pay the application fee required under the
by-laws of the College. O. Reg. 300/23, s. 3.
Registration Requirements, Doctor of Traditional Chinese Medicine class
20.4 (1) The following are non-exemptible registration requirements for a Doctor certificate of registration:
1. The applicant is currently a member in good standing who holds a General certificate of registration with a R.TCMP
designation and;
a. provides evidence of the following:
i. Successful completion of two years of study at the bachelor level at an Ontario university or study that is
substantially equivalent as determined by the Registration Committee;
ii. Successful completion of the registration examinations that are set or approved by the Council; and
iii. Within five years of applying, has practised the profession as a member of the College, in both traditional
Chinese acupuncture and traditional Chinese herbal medicine in a manner acceptable to the College, for three years with a
minimum of 2,400 patient visits; or
b. provides evidence of the following:
i. Successful completion of the registration examinations that are set or approved by the Council; and
ii. Within twelve years of applying, has practised the profession as a member of the College, in both traditional
Chinese acupuncture and traditional Chinese herbal medicine in a manner acceptable to the College for ten years with a
minimum of 8,000 patient visits; or
2. The applicant provides evidence of the following:
a. Successful completion of two years of study at the bachelor level at an Ontario university or study that is
substantially equivalent as determined by the Registration Committee;;
b. Successful completion of a post-secondary doctor of traditional Chinese medicine program that consists of at least five
years of education, each year of which consists of at least 560 hours of classroom theoretical instruction or at least 728
hours of practical instruction or some combination of the two where, for every hour of classroom theoretical
instruction that is less than 560 hours there must be a corresponding increase of 1.3 hours in the number of hours of
practical instruction or education that is of equivalent duration,
c. Successful completion a program of clinical experience in the profession that is structured, comprehensive, supervised
and evaluated and which consists of at least 45 weeks of clinical experience involving at least 1200 hours of direct
patient contact.
d. Successful completion of the Safety Program that was set or approved by the Council or by a body that is approved
by the Council for that purpose.
e. Successful completion of the jurisprudence course set or approved by the Registration Committee.
f. Successful completion of the registration examinations that are set or approved by the Council.
g. The applicant must have successfully passed an assessment conducted by a panel of the Registration Committee, or by
another body that is approved by the Council for that purpose, that demonstrates that the applicant has the necessary
competency to safely practise the profession as the holder of a Doctor of Traditional Chinese Medicine certificate of
registration.
20.4(2) If the applicant has not satisfied the requirements set out in paragraph b of subsection (1) para 2 either within one
year immediately before the date that the applicant submitted his or her application or at some point following the
submission of his or her application, the applicant must,
(a) have practised the profession during the three-year period of time that immediately preceded the date that
the applicant submitted his or her application, which practice included conducting a minimum of 500 traditional
Chinese medicine patient visits, which may include traditional Chinese acupuncture patient visits; or
(b) have, within the 12-month period that immediately preceded the date that the applicant submitted his or her
application, successfully completed a refresher program approved by the Registration Committee
10
(3) The requirement in paragraph c of subsection (1) para 2 is not considered to have been met if the program referred to in
that paragraph commenced prior to the commencement of the program in doctor of traditional Chinese medicine
referred to in paragraph b of subsection (1) para 2 .
(4) The requirements in paragraphs d and e of subsection (1) para 2 are not considered to have been met unless the applicant
satisfies those requirements either within the three-year period immediately before the date of that applicant’s
application or at some point following the submission of his or her application.
(5) Subject to subsections (6) and (7), the requirements in paragraph f of subsection (1) para 2 are not considered to have
been met unless the applicant successfully completed the examinations,
(a) after the date on which he or she met the requirements in paragraph g of subsection (1) para 2; or
(b) within three attempts.
(6) In the case of an applicant who does not successfully complete the examinations within three attempts, the requirements
in paragraph f of subsection (1) para 2 will be considered to have been met if the applicant successfully completed the
examinations on the applicant’s fourth attempt after having first successfully completed the further education or
training or combination of education and training, if any, required by a panel of the Registration Committee.
(7) Where, by virtue of clause (b) of subsection (5) and subsection (6), an applicant is not considered to have met the
requirements in paragraph f of subsection (1) para 2, the successful completion of the examinations on any further
attempt will not be considered as satisfying the requirements in paragraph f of subsection (1) para 2 unless, prior to
sitting the examinations, the applicant completes another program mentioned in paragraph b of subsection (1) para 2.
(78) Where, by virtue of clause (a) of subsection (5), an applicant is not considered to have met the requirements in paragraph
f of subsection (1) para 2, the attempt or attempts to sit the examinations that led to the meeting of those requirements
will not be considered for the purposes of clause (5) (b) and subsection (6).
Additional terms, etc., Doctor of Traditional Chinese Medicine Class
20.5(1) The following are additional terms, conditions and limitations on every Doctor certificate of registration:
1. The member must either,
i. conduct a minimum of 500 traditional Chinese medicine patient visits, which may include traditional Chinese
acupuncture patient visits, during every three-year period where the first three-year period begins on the day that
the member is issued a Doctor certificate of registration and each subsequent three-year period begins on the first
anniversary of the commencement of the previous period, or
ii. within the 12 months prior to the expiry of each period referred to in subparagraph i in which the member does
not meet the requirements of that subparagraph, successfully complete a refresher program approved by the
Registration Committee.
(2) If a member fails to meet the term, condition and limitation described in paragraph 1 of subsection (1), the Registrar
shall refer the member to the Quality Assurance Committee for a peer and practice review.
Labour mobility, Doctor of Traditional Chinese Medicine Class
20.6. (1) Where section 22.18 of the Health Professions Procedural Code applies to an applicant for a Doctor of
Traditional Chinese Medicine certificate of registration, the applicant is deemed to have met the requirements set out in
paragraphs a, b, c, d, f, and g of subsection 20.4. (1)2. and in subsection 20.4.(2) of this Regulation. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 23 (7).
(2) It is a non-exemptible registration requirement that an applicant referred to in subsection (1) provide one or more
certificates or letters or other evidence satisfactory to the Registrar or a panel of the Registration Committee confirming that
the applicant is in good standing as a doctor of traditional Chinese medicine in every jurisdiction where the applicant holds an
out-of-province certificate. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 11 (2).
(3) If an applicant to whom subsection (1) applies is unable to satisfy the Registrar or a panel of the Registration
Committee that the applicant practised the profession of traditional Chinese medicine to the extent that would be permitted by
a Doctor of Traditional Chinese Medicine certificate of registration at any time in the three years immediately before the date
of that applicant’s application, it is a non-exemptible requirement that the applicant must meet any further requirement to
undertake, obtain or undergo material additional training, experience, examinations or assessments that may be specified by a
panel of the Registration Committee. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 11 (3).
11
(4) An applicant referred to in subsection (1) is deemed to have met the requirement of paragraph 4 of subsection 4 (1) if
the requirements for the issuance of the out-of-province certificate included language proficiency requirements equivalent to
those required by that paragraph. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 11 (4).
(5) Despite subsection (1), an applicant is not deemed to have met a requirement if that requirement is described in
subsection 22.18 (3) of the Health Professions Procedural Code. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 11 (5).
Suspensions, revocations and reinstatements
21. (1) If a member fails to provide the College with information about the member as required under the by-laws,
(a) the Registrar may give the member notice of intention to suspend the member’s certificate of registration; and
(b) the Registrar may suspend the member’s certificate of registration if the member fails to provide the information
within 30 days after the notice is given. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 21 (1).
(2) If the Registrar suspends a member’s certificate of registration under subsection (1), the Registrar shall lift the
suspension upon being satisfied that,
(a) the former member has given the required information to the College;
(b) the former member has paid any fees required under the by-laws for lifting the suspension;
(c) the former member has paid any other outstanding fees required under the by-laws; and
(d) in the case of a former member whose certificate of registration was suspended under subsection (1) more than three
years prior to the date on which he or she made his or her application for reinstatement, he or she possesses the current
knowledge, skill and judgment relating to the practice of the profession that would be expected of a member holding
the type of certificate that is being applied for. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 21 (2).
(3) Despite subsection (2), after the fifth anniversary of the day this subsection comes into force, the Registrar shall not lift
the suspension of a Grandparented certificate of registration. O. Reg. 27/13, s. 21 (3).
Registrar to give notice
22. The Registrar shall provide notice to a member where the member fails to meet the term, condition and limitation
described in paragraph 2 of subsection 10 (1) within the timeframe provided for in subsection 10 (3) and the member’s
General certificate of registration shall be revoked 30 days following the date on which the notice is provided. O. Reg. 27/13,
s. 22.
23. OMITTED (PROVIDES FOR AMENDMENTS TO THIS REGULATION). O. Reg. 27/13, s. 23.
24. OMITTED (PROVIDES FOR AMENDMENTS TO THIS REGULATION). O. Reg. 27/13, s. 24; O, Reg. 184/19, s. 2.
25. OMITTED (PROVIDES FOR COMING INTO FORCE OF PROVISIONS OF THIS REGULATION). O. Reg. 27/13, s. 25.
Français
Back to top
12